# COP5536-Fall2022
**Group Members:**
  1. Adish Someshwar Rao 
  2. Sanjana Rao Guttalu Prasan

**Outline:**
  
  We have implemented the Actor Model in Erlang to hash and mine bitcoins with the desired number of leading zeros. We have also implemented the Remote Configuration using client and server machines.
 
**System 1: bitcoin_server.erl**
  
  The server is started prior to the client with  the number of nodes (N_Nodes) and the number of leading zeros (K) as its arguments.
The server spawns N_Nodes (actors) to mine coins and then waits to receive messages either from the spawned actors that a coin is found, which the server will print, or from a client that wishes to participate in the mining.
Upon receiving a message from a client, the server further spawns multiple children (actors) to continuously mine for coins on a client. Any number of clients may connect. These actors on the client behave the same as actors on the server and will send a message to the server when a coin is found.
Each child actor is designed to continue hashing/mining until the server finds a total of 100 coins.

**System 2: bitcoin_client.erl**
  
  Client takes in the server node name as the argument and a connection is established with the server after which the server spawns actors on the client to mine for coins.

**Work Unit:**
  
  Every child actor is tasked with generating a random string, computing the hash, and mining for bitcoins. Each actor runs until the minimum leading zero condition is satisfied and the generated hash is less than the target value. Upon finding 100 coins, all the actors are killed. We determined that each actor should take on the complete responsibility of generating the string, hashing it, and checking if its a valid coin as when the number of work units were broken down, the execution time (real time) increased due to the exccess communication latency. Many workers stood idle as the server program would generate a string for each actor (thousands of them) and then send the string to each actor for hashing. Like wise, once a hash was found and sent to the server, the check for valid coin was moved to the child actor as the server spent a large number of time verifying each hash generated by these large number of actors. Thus, the child actor now takes all the responsibility and the server only tells the child actor whether to continue mining or not.

**Running Time:**
  
  Total Clock time  = 64165.23
  Total CPU time = 189105
  CPU time/ Run time ratio =  2.9471568947855404
  

**Largest coin found (i.e., the coin with the most number of leading 0's)**
  
  We found the largest coin to have seven zeros.

**Largest number of working machines**
  
  We were able to run the script on four nodes but the same could be scaled to run on many more.
  
  
